Taylor McKenzie is a Systems Analyst with the Strategic Futures and Policy Analysis group at Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, NM. He earned his Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Oregon in 2017, focusing on decision and choice modeling and empirically describing competition between firms and other economic agents. At Sandia, Taylor has leveraged his economics and statistics expertise across a wide range of applications, including contributing to risk analysis of the launch of the Perseverance rover as a member of the Interagency Nuclear Safety Review Board, performing economic impact analyses of COVID-19 and other natural and man-made disasters, and leading Global Futures studies on Economic Value and National Security and Knowledge Management to inform Sandia’s policies and direction. Taylor’s interests lie at the intersection of objective, purpose-built statistical analyses and creative strategic thinking that enables well-informed policy to address current and beyond-the-horizon challenges.


Uncertainty quantification (UQ) is the process of identifying how uncertainty in inputs to and parameters of a simulation propagate to uncertainty in outputs from that simulation. When a simulation is computationally or time intensive, a surrogate function is commonly used to serve as a proxy for that simulation, making it feasible to combine results from the simulation and surrogate function to efficiently sample from the simulation many times. There exist many methods to construct surrogate functions for simulations of physical systems (e.g., computational fluid dynamics), but applications to cyber-based experiments are less understood. We explore the suitability of various surrogate functions against cyber-physical emulation of a pressurized water reactor (PWR) that is subjected to various cyber-focused disruptions. Specifically, malicious traffic is injected to the heater and sprayer actuators, and it is determined from the model whether pressure exceeds a critical threshold within the period of the disruption. We assume that which actuators are targeted and values injected to the targeted actuators are uncertain, random variables following specified distributions. We investigate the performance of traditional surrogate function formulations (e.g., polynomial chaos expansions and Gaussian processes) and find that the assumption of conditional determinism of outputs in the methods is violoated in our cyber experiments. We then develop a Gaussian process model that accounts for measurement error and fit it to the binary outcome of whether the critical pressure threshold was crossed using a limited number of simulations. Using this surrogate function, we identify effects of input parameters and determine which variables drive higher frequency of undesirable outcomes. Finally, using specified distributions of input parameters and the surrogate function, we derive an overall probability that the pressure will exceed the critical threshold in a disruption scenario.